Having data or collecting data is not valuable. Using data is. Analytical insights powered by ML, Deep Learning,  AI are changing customer expectations and corporate strategy.

Google CEO Sundar Pichai laid out the emerging corporate mindset: Machine learning [powered predictive analytics] is a core, transformative way by which were rethinking how were doing everything. We are thoughtfully applying it across all our products, be it search, ads, YouTube, or Play. And we’re in early days, but you will see us?—?in a systematic way?—?apply machine learning in all these areas.

A decade ago, GE was in the mode of the product breaks, we fix it, Today, GE has $100 billion in revenue tied to data-driven SLA asset maintenance contracts, whereby it gets paid based on a product being in service — a power plant turbine, a jet engine, a locomotive. Power by the Hour leasing model means the maintenance costs and service outages are GE's headaches not clients. GE needs predictive analytics to help meet SLAs, avoid downtime, predict safety issues, and make those contracts profitable.

Predictive Analytics is the new differentiator. Take for instance, Uber, which is a data driven business model powered by a huge trove of real-world, real-time preference/usage /feedback data. Uber’s mission is to architect, develop, and deploy world-class data systems to empower multiple services. The backend data engineering group is responsible for real-time business metrics aggregation, data warehousing and querying, large scale log processing, schema and data management as well as a number of other analytics infrastructure systems.

It's a new world with new rules around man+machine interactions.  Once-a-day sensor readings are moving to real-time rule based or machie learning platforms. Consumer facing interactions are evolving from… How companies find customers to how customers find companies today.  Strategies are shifting from…. Serving customers with with silod channels were enough to now seamlessly integrating multi-channels, screens, devices.  Demographic segmentation is evolving from simple behavior segmentation to complex 1:1 predictive personalization.

I believe that we are on the cusp of a multi-year predictive analytics revolution that will transform everything. However, change will be slower than people think as legacy systems have to replaced; it’s impact greater than people envision in the long run.  Analytics and AI will be highly disruptive to some industries, affecting not only revenue and cost structure but also shaking up the core business and operating models. The scope of predictive analytics is also expanding considerably as human behavior is modeled and expressed mathematically.